Add OTel logs source doc to doc website. (#3608)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/otel-logs-source.md

---
layout: default
title: otel_logs_source 
parent: Sources
grand_parent: Pipelines
nav_order: 25
---

# otel_logs_source

> The `otel_logs_source` source is an OpenTelemetry source that follows the [OpenTelemetry Protocol Specification](https://github.com/open-telemetry/oteps/blob/master/text/0035-opentelemetry-protocol.md), receives logs from the OTel Collector in the form of `ExportLogsServiceRequest` records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `otel_logs_source` source is an OpenTelemetry source that follows the [OpenTelemetry Protocol Specification](https://github.com/open-telemetry/oteps/blob/master/text/0035-opentelemetry-protocol.md) and receives logs from the OTel Collector in the form of `ExportLogsServiceRequest` records.
```

This source supports the `OTLP/gRPC` protocol.
{: .note}

## Configuration

You can configure the `otel_logs_source` source with the following options. 

| Option | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| port | int | Represents the port that the `otel_logs_source` is running on. Default value is `21892`. |

> | path | string | Represents the path for sending unframed HTTP requests. You can use this option to support unframed gRPC with HTTP idiomatic path to a configurable path. The path should start with `/` and length should be at least 1. `/opentelemetry.proto.collector.logs.v1.LogsService/Export` endpoint is disabled for both gRPC and HTTP requests if the path is configured. The path can contain `${pipelineName}` placeholder, which is replaced with pipeline name.  If the value is empty and `unframed_requests` is `true`, then the path that the source provides is `/opentelemetry.proto.collector.logs.v1.LogsService/Export`. | 

Reviewer: Confirm that my changes retain the intended meaning.

Author: Confirmed, the intended meaning is in tact. Thanks!

| request_timeout | int | Represents the request timeout duration in milliseconds. Default value is `10000`. |
| health_check_service | Boolean | Enables the gRPC health check service under `grpc.health.v1/Health/Check`. Default value is `false`. |

> | proto_reflection_service | Boolean | Enables a reflection service for Protobuf services (see [ProtoReflectionService](https://grpc.github.io/grpc-java/javadoc/io/grpc/protobuf/services/ProtoReflectionService.html) and [gRPC reflection](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-java/blob/master/documentation/server-reflection-tutorial.md) documents). Default value is `false`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| proto_reflection_service | Boolean | Enables a reflection service for Protobuf services (see [ProtoReflectionService](https://grpc.github.io/grpc-java/javadoc/io/grpc/protobuf/services/ProtoReflectionService.html) and [gRPC reflection](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-java/blob/master/documentation/server-reflection-tutorial.md)). Default value is `false`. |
```

| unframed_requests | Boolean | Enables requests that are not framed using the gRPC wire protocol. Default value is `false`. |
| thread_count  | int | The number of threads to keep in the `ScheduledThreadPool`. Default value is `500`. |
| max_connection_count | int | The maximum number of open connections allowed. Default value is `500`. |

### SSL

You can configure SSL in the `otel_logs_source` source with the following options.

| Option | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ssl | Boolean | Enables TLS/SSL. Default value is `true`. |
| sslKeyCertChainFile | string | Represents the SSL certificate chain file path or Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) path. For example, see the Amazon S3 path `s3://<bucketName>/<path>`. Required if `ssl` is set to `true`.  |

> | sslKeyFile | string | Represents the SSL key file path or Amazon S3 path. For example, see the Amazon S3 path: `s3://<bucketName>/<path>`. Required if `ssl` is set to `true`.  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| sslKeyFile | string | Represents the SSL key file path or Amazon S3 path. For example, see the Amazon S3 path `s3://<bucketName>/<path>`. Required if `ssl` is set to `true`.  |
```

> | useAcmCertForSSL | Boolean | Enables TLS/SSL using certificate and private key from AWS Certificate Manager (ACM). Default value is `false`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| useAcmCertForSSL | Boolean | Enables TLS/SSL using a certificate and private key from AWS Certificate Manager (ACM). Default value is `false`. |
```

> | acmCertificateArn | string | Represents the ACM certificate ARN. ACM certificate take preference over Amazon S3 or local file system certificate.  Required if `useAcmCertForSSL` is set to `true`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| acmCertificateArn | string | Represents the ACM certificate Amazon Resource Name (ARN). ACM certificates take precedence over Amazon S3 or local file system certificates. Required if `useAcmCertForSSL` is set to `true`. |
```

> | awsRegion | string | Represents the AWS Region to use ACM or Amazon S3.  Required if `useAcmCertForSSL` is set to `true` or `sslKeyCertChainFile` and `sslKeyFile` is the Amazon S3 path. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| awsRegion | string | Represents the AWS Region to use ACM or Amazon S3. Required if `useAcmCertForSSL` is set to `true` or `sslKeyCertChainFile` and `sslKeyFile` is the Amazon S3 path. |
```

> | awsRegion | string | Represents the AWS Region to use ACM or Amazon S3.  Required if `useAcmCertForSSL` is set to `true` or `sslKeyCertChainFile` and `sslKeyFile` is the Amazon S3 path. |

Reviewer: "Represents the AWS Region used by ACM or Amazon S3"? Should the last instance of "and" be "or" ("or `sslKeyCertChainFile` or `sslKeyFile` is the Amazon S3 path")?

Author: Using "or" makes more sense here.

> ---

Reviewer 2: Following #3666, can you rename this file to `otel_logs_source.md`?

Author: @dlvenable Sure!

Author: @Naarcha-AWS @hdhalter Can/should we do this?

Reviewer 2: @carolxob , Let's not worry about renaming the files if it is a concern. We can address that later.

layout: default

> title: otel_logs_source

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: OTel logs source 
```

Author: @dlvenable Keeping underscores in the title will impact SEO and accessibility. Also, #3802 was created to address titles for these plugins as well.

parent: Sources
grand_parent: Pipelines
nav_order: 25
---

# otel_logs_source

> ## Overview

Reviewer 3: Remove this overview header. Description of the source will go below.

```suggestion
```

> `otel_logs_source` is an OpenTelemetry source that follows the [OpenTelemtry Protocol Specification](https://github.com/open-telemetry/oteps/blob/master/text/0035-opentelemetry-protocol.md) and exports `ExportLogsServiceRequest` records. 

Author: Is `otel_logs_source` a source for OpenTelemetry Collector? Other source docs state that, but it isn't explicitly stated here.

Reviewer 4: Yes this a source to receive logs from OpenTelemetry Collector.

> `otel_logs_source` is an OpenTelemetry source that follows the [OpenTelemtry Protocol Specification](https://github.com/open-telemetry/oteps/blob/master/text/0035-opentelemetry-protocol.md) and exports `ExportLogsServiceRequest` records. 

Author: Why does this source export records? How is that helpful to someone using this source?

Author: @dlvenable Refreshing this question.

> `otel_logs_source` is an OpenTelemetry source that follows the [OpenTelemtry Protocol Specification](https://github.com/open-telemetry/oteps/blob/master/text/0035-opentelemetry-protocol.md), receives logs from OpenTelemetry Collector, and receives `ExportLogsServiceRequest` records to process through a Data Prepper pipeline.

Reviewer 2: It might be better to reword this line:

> receives logs from OpenTelemetry Collector, and receives `ExportLogsServiceRequest` records 

to:

> receives logs from the OpenTelemetry Collector in the form of `ExportLogsServiceRequest` records.

The current wording makes it seem like it can read two different things (logs and export records). But they are the same thing.

This source supports the `OTLP/gRPC` protocol.
{: .note}

## Configuration

You can configure the `otel_logs_source` source with the following options. 

> | Option | Required | Default | Description |

Author: Please confirm that none of these options are required. If none are required, is there a need to include the "Required" column?

| :--- | :--- | :--- |

> | port | int | Represents the port that the `OTel logs source` is running on. Default value is `21892`. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| port | int | Represents the port that the `otel_logs_source` is running on. Default value is `21892`. |
```

> | path | No |      | A `String` that represents the path for sending unframed HTTP requests. This can be used for supporting unframed gRPC with HTTP idiomatic path to a configurable path. It should start with `/` and length should be at least 1. `/opentelemetry.proto.collector.logs.v1.LogsService/Export` endpoint will be disabled for both gRPC and HTTP requests if path is configured. Path can contain `${pipelineName}` placeholder which will be replaced with pipeline name.

Author: Is there a default value for `path`?

> | path | string | Represents the path for sending unframed HTTP requests. This can be used for supporting unframed gRPC with HTTP idiomatic path to a configurable path. It should start with `/` and length should be at least 1. `/opentelemetry.proto.collector.logs.v1.LogsService/Export` endpoint will be disabled for both gRPC and HTTP requests if path is configured. Path can contain `${pipelineName}` placeholder which will be replaced with pipeline name.  If the value is empty and `unframed_requests` is `true`, then the path that the source provides is `/opentelemetry.proto.collector.logs.v1.LogsService/Export`. There is no default value. | 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| path | string | Represents the path for sending unframed HTTP requests. This can be used for supporting unframed gRPC requests with an HTTP idiomatic path that routes to a configurable path. It should start with `/` and length should be at least 1. When a path is configured, the `/opentelemetry.proto.collector.logs.v1.LogsService/Export` endpoint does not receive both gRPC and HTTP requests. Path can contain a `${pipelineName}` placeholder, which when not replaced, defaults to the current pipeline name.  If the value is empty and `unframed_requests` is `true`, then the source provides `/opentelemetry.proto.collector.logs.v1.LogsService/Export` as the path.  | 
```

> | request_timeout | int | Represents the request timeout duration in milliseconds. Default value is `10,000`. |

Reviewer 2: As far as I know YAML does not support commas in numbers. 

So while the default value is 10,000, it would need to be represented as `10000` in the actual configuration. So I think it might be best to include this in the actual value.

But, I could see an argument for making it more readable in the docs. Perhaps removing the backticks?

Thoughts?

Author: @natebower Do you have any specific recommendations for removing the tic marks? All default values in this table are inside tic marks.

Reviewer: Leave in tic marks but render as `10000` (if that's how it appears to the user).

| health_check_service | Boolean | Enables the gRPC health check service under `grpc.health.v1/Health/Check`. Default value is `false`. |
| proto_reflection_service | Boolean | Enables a reflection service for Protobuf services (see [ProtoReflectionService](https://grpc.github.io/grpc-java/javadoc/io/grpc/protobuf/services/ProtoReflectionService.html) and [gRPC reflection](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-java/blob/master/documentation/server-reflection-tutorial.md) documents). Default value is `false`. |
| unframed_requests | Boolean | Enables requests which are not framed using the gRPC wire protocol. Default value is `false`.|
| thread_count  | int | The number of threads to keep in the `ScheduledThreadPool`. Default value is `500`. |
| max_connection_count | int | The maximum number of open connections allowed. Default value is `500`. |

### SSL

You can configure SSL in the `otel_logs_source` source with the following options.

| Option | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ssl | Boolean | Enables TLS/SSL. Default value is `true`. |

> | sslKeyCertChainFile | string | Represents the SSL certificate chain file path or AWS S3 path. For example, see the S3 path `s3://<bucketName>/<path>`. Required if `ssl` is set to `true`. Default value is |

Author: @dlvenable @asifsmohammed Does this have a default value?

> | sslKeyFile | string | Represents the SSL key file path or AWS S3 path. For example, see the S3 path: `s3://<bucketName>/<path>`. Required if `ssl` is set to `true`. Default value is |

Author: @dlvenable @asifsmohammed Does this have a default value?

Reviewer 5: No, it does not have a default value.

| useAcmCertForSSL | No | `false` | A boolean enables TLS/SSL using certificate and private key from AWS Certificate Manager (ACM). |
| acmCertificateArn | No | Yes, if `useAcmCertForSSL` is set to `true`. | A `string` that represents the ACM certificate ARN. ACM certificate take preference over S3 or local file system certificate. |

> | awsRegion | Yes, if `useAcmCertForSSL` is set to `true` or `sslKeyCertChainFile` and `sslKeyFile` is `AWS S3 path` |       | A `string` that represents the AWS region to use ACM or S3. Required. |

Author: Is there a default value for `awsRegion`?

Reviewer 2: No, it has to be provided.

> | acmCertificateArn | string | Represents the ACM certificate ARN. ACM certificate take preference over S3 or local file system certificate. Default value is yes, if `useAcmCertForSSL` is set to `true`.|

Author: @dlvenable @asifsmohammed Is this default value correct?

Reviewer 5: No, it does not have a default value.

> | acmCertificateArn | string | Represents the ACM certificate ARN. ACM certificate take preference over S3 or local file system certificate. There is no default value. Required if `useAcmCertForSSL` is set to `true`. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| acmCertificateArn | string | Represents the ACM certificate ARN. ACM certificate take preference over S3 or local file system certificate. Required if `useAcmCertForSSL` is set to `true`. |
```

> | awsRegion | string | Represents the AWS region to use ACM or S3. Default value is yes, if `useAcmCertForSSL` is set to `true` or `sslKeyCertChainFile` and `sslKeyFile` is `AWS S3 path`. |

Author: @dlvenable @asifsmohammed Is this default value correct?

> | awsRegion | string | Represents the AWS region to use ACM or S3. There is no default value. Required if `useAcmCertForSSL` is set to `true` or `sslKeyCertChainFile` and `sslKeyFile` is AWS S3 path. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| awsRegion | string | Represents the AWS region to use ACM or S3.  Required if `useAcmCertForSSL` is set to `true` or `sslKeyCertChainFile` and `sslKeyFile` is AWS S3 path. |
```

## Usage

> To get started, create a `pipeline.yaml` file. See the following `YAML` file configuration example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To get started, create a `pipeline.yaml` file and add `otel_logs_source` as source:
```

```
source:
    - otel_logs_source:
```

## Metrics

You can use the following metrics with the `otel_logs_source` source.

| Option | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | 
| `requestTimeouts` | Counter | Measures the total number of requests that time out. | 

> | `requestsReceived` | Counter | Measures the total number of requests received by Otel logs source. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `requestsReceived` | Counter | Measures the total number of requests received by OTel logs source. |
```

| `badRequests` | Counter | Measures the total number of requests that could not be parsed. |
| `requestsTooLarge` | Counter | Measures the total number of requests that exceed the maximum allowed size. Indicates the size of the data to be written into the buffer is beyond buffer's maximum capacity. |
| `internalServerError` | Counter | Measures the total number of requests that are erroneous due to any other reason than requestTimeouts or requestsTooLarge error. |
| `successRequests` | Counter | Measures the total number of requests successfully written to the buffer. |

> | `payloadSize` | Summary | Measures the distribution of all incoming payload sizes. |

Author: Is `Summary` the correct category for `successRequests`?

Reviewer 2: Let's stick with "Distribution summary"
